# Vulnerabilities in multi-factor authentication
In this section, we'll look at some of the vulnerabilities that can occur in multi-factor authentication mechanisms. The details are a bit more involved, so we won't be touching them. If you wish to learn more about it, please refer to [here](https://portswigger.net/web-security/authentication/multi-factor).

Many websites rely exclusively on single-factor authentication using a password to authenticate users. However, some require users to prove their identity using multiple authentication factors- which is usually *something you know* and *something you have*. This usually requires users to enter both a traditional password and a temporary verification code from an out-of-band physical device in their possession. 

The major vulnerabilities in Two-factor authentication are:
* **Transmitting tokens through SMS-** Many websites send a token to the users through text messages, which is again vulnerable to being intercepted. There is also a risk of SIM swapping, whereby an attacker fraudulently obtains a SIM card with the victim's phone number. The attacker would then receive all SMS messages sent to the victim, including the one containing their verification code.
* **Bypassing two-factor authentication-**  At times, the implementation of two-factor authentication is flawed to the point where it can be bypassed entirely. If the user is first prompted to enter a password, and then prompted to enter a verification code on a separate page, the user is effectively in a "logged in" state before they have entered the verification code. In this case, it is worth testing to see if you can directly skip to "logged-in only" pages after completing the first authentication step. 
* **Flawed two-factor verification logic-** Sometimes flawed logic in two-factor authentication means that after a user has completed the initial login step, the website doesn't adequately verify that the same user is completing the second step. So what actually happens is, once you log in, you are assigned a cookie that contains the username of the account you are trying to access. If the attacker manipulates the username in the cookie and brute force the verification token, he can effectively log in to any random user's account by just knowing the username!! (Refere [here](https://portswigger.net/web-security/authentication/multi-factor) to know the specifics)

* **Brute-forcing 2FA verification codes-** As with passwords, websites need to take steps to prevent brute-forcing of the 2FA verification code. This is especially important because the code is often a simple 4 or 6-digit number. Without adequate brute-force protection, cracking such a code is trivial. 